---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "unifi_network Data Source - terraform-provider-unifi"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  unifi_network data source can be used to retrieve settings for a network by name or ID.
---

# unifi_network (Data Source)

`unifi_network` data source can be used to retrieve settings for a network by name or ID.

## Example Usage

```terraform
#retrieve network data by unifi network name
data "unifi_network" "lan_network" {
  name = "Default"
}

#retrieve network data from user record
data "unifi_user" "my_device" {
  mac = "01:23:45:67:89:ab"
}
data "unifi_network" "my_network" {
  id = data.unifi_user.my_device.network_id
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `id` (String) The ID of the network.
- `name` (String) The name of the network.
- `site` (String) The name of the site to associate the network with.

### Read-Only

- `dhcp_dns` (List of String) IPv4 addresses for the DNS server to be returned from the DHCP server.
- `dhcp_enabled` (Boolean) whether DHCP is enabled or not on this network.
- `dhcp_lease` (Number) lease time for DHCP addresses.
- `dhcp_start` (String) The IPv4 address where the DHCP range of addresses starts.
- `dhcp_stop` (String) The IPv4 address where the DHCP range of addresses stops.
- `dhcp_v6_dns` (List of String) Specifies the IPv6 addresses for the DNS server to be returned from the DHCP server. Used if `dhcp_v6_dns_auto` is set to `false`.
- `dhcp_v6_dns_auto` (Boolean) Specifies DNS source to propagate. If set `false` the entries in `dhcp_v6_dns` are used, the upstream entries otherwise
- `dhcp_v6_enabled` (Boolean) Enable stateful DHCPv6 for static configuration.
- `dhcp_v6_lease` (Number) Specifies the lease time for DHCPv6 addresses.
- `dhcp_v6_start` (String) Start address of the DHCPv6 range. Used in static DHCPv6 configuration.
- `dhcp_v6_stop` (String) End address of the DHCPv6 range. Used in static DHCPv6 configuration.
- `dhcpd_boot_enabled` (Boolean) Toggles on the DHCP boot options. will be set to true if you have dhcpd_boot_filename, and dhcpd_boot_server set.
- `dhcpd_boot_filename` (String) the file to PXE boot from on the dhcpd_boot_server.
- `dhcpd_boot_server` (String) IPv4 address of a TFTP server to network boot from.
- `domain_name` (String) The domain name of this network.
- `igmp_snooping` (Boolean) Specifies whether IGMP snooping is enabled or not.
- `ipv6_interface_type` (String) Specifies which type of IPv6 connection to use. Must be one of either `static`, `pd`, or `none`.
- `ipv6_pd_interface` (String) Specifies which WAN interface to use for IPv6 PD. Must be one of either `wan` or `wan2`.
- `ipv6_pd_prefixid` (String) Specifies the IPv6 Prefix ID.
- `ipv6_pd_start` (String) Start address of the DHCPv6 range. Used if `ipv6_interface_type` is set to `pd`.
- `ipv6_pd_stop` (String) End address of the DHCPv6 range. Used if `ipv6_interface_type` is set to `pd`.
- `ipv6_ra_enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether to enable router advertisements or not.
- `ipv6_ra_preferred_lifetime` (Number) Lifetime in which the address can be used. Address becomes deprecated afterwards. Must be lower than or equal to `ipv6_ra_valid_lifetime`
- `ipv6_ra_priority` (String) IPv6 router advertisement priority. Must be one of either `high`, `medium`, or `low`
- `ipv6_ra_valid_lifetime` (Number) Total lifetime in which the address can be used. Must be equal to or greater than `ipv6_ra_preferred_lifetime`.
- `ipv6_static_subnet` (String) Specifies the static IPv6 subnet (when ipv6_interface_type is 'static').
- `multicast_dns` (Boolean) Specifies whether Multicast DNS (mDNS) is enabled or not on the network (Controller >=v7).
- `network_group` (String) The group of the network.
- `purpose` (String) The purpose of the network. One of `corporate`, `guest`, `wan`, or `vlan-only`.
- `subnet` (String) The subnet of the network (CIDR address).
- `vlan_id` (Number) The VLAN ID of the network.
- `wan_dhcp_v6_pd_size` (Number) Specifies the IPv6 prefix size to request from ISP. Must be a number between 48 and 64.
- `wan_dns` (List of String) DNS servers IPs of the WAN.
- `wan_egress_qos` (Number) Specifies the WAN egress quality of service.
- `wan_gateway` (String) The IPv4 gateway of the WAN.
- `wan_gateway_v6` (String) The IPv6 gateway of the WAN.
- `wan_ip` (String) The IPv4 address of the WAN.
- `wan_ipv6` (String) The IPv6 address of the WAN.
- `wan_netmask` (String) The IPv4 netmask of the WAN.
- `wan_networkgroup` (String) Specifies the WAN network group. One of either `WAN`, `WAN2` or `WAN_LTE_FAILOVER`.
- `wan_prefixlen` (Number) The IPv6 prefix length of the WAN. Must be between 1 and 128.
- `wan_type` (String) Specifies the IPV4 WAN connection type. One of either `disabled`, `static`, `dhcp`, or `pppoe`.
- `wan_type_v6` (String) Specifies the IPV6 WAN connection type. Must be one of either `disabled`, `static`, or `dhcpv6`.
- `wan_username` (String) Specifies the IPV4 WAN username.
- `x_wan_password` (String) Specifies the IPV4 WAN password.


