---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "unifi_firewall_rule Resource - terraform-provider-unifi"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  unifi_firewall_rule manages an individual firewall rule on the gateway.
---

# unifi_firewall_rule (Resource)

`unifi_firewall_rule` manages an individual firewall rule on the gateway.

## Example Usage

```terraform
variable "ip_address" {
  type = string
}

resource "unifi_firewall_rule" "drop_all" {
  name    = "drop all"
  action  = "drop"
  ruleset = "LAN_IN"

  rule_index = 2011

  protocol = "all"

  dst_address = var.ip_address
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `action` (String) The action of the firewall rule. Must be one of `drop`, `accept`, or `reject`.
- `name` (String) The name of the firewall rule.
- `rule_index` (Number) The index of the rule. Must be >= 2000 < 3000 or >= 4000 < 5000.
- `ruleset` (String) The ruleset for the rule. This is from the perspective of the security gateway. Must be one of `WAN_IN`, `WAN_OUT`, `WAN_LOCAL`, `LAN_IN`, `LAN_OUT`, `LAN_LOCAL`, `GUEST_IN`, `GUEST_OUT`, `GUEST_LOCAL`, `WANv6_IN`, `WANv6_OUT`, `WANv6_LOCAL`, `LANv6_IN`, `LANv6_OUT`, `LANv6_LOCAL`, `GUESTv6_IN`, `GUESTv6_OUT`, or `GUESTv6_LOCAL`.

### Optional

- `dst_address` (String) The destination address of the firewall rule.
- `dst_address_ipv6` (String) The IPv6 destination address of the firewall rule.
- `dst_firewall_group_ids` (Set of String) The destination firewall group IDs of the firewall rule.
- `dst_network_id` (String) The destination network ID of the firewall rule.
- `dst_network_type` (String) The destination network type of the firewall rule. Can be one of `ADDRv4` or `NETv4`. Defaults to `NETv4`.
- `dst_port` (String) The destination port of the firewall rule.
- `icmp_typename` (String) ICMP type name.
- `icmp_v6_typename` (String) ICMPv6 type name.
- `ip_sec` (String) Specify whether the rule matches on IPsec packets. Can be one of `match-ipset` or `match-none`.
- `logging` (Boolean) Enable logging for the firewall rule.
- `protocol` (String) The protocol of the rule.
- `protocol_v6` (String) The IPv6 protocol of the rule.
- `site` (String) The name of the site to associate the firewall rule with.
- `src_address` (String) The source address for the firewall rule.
- `src_address_ipv6` (String) The IPv6 source address for the firewall rule.
- `src_firewall_group_ids` (Set of String) The source firewall group IDs for the firewall rule.
- `src_mac` (String) The source MAC address of the firewall rule.
- `src_network_id` (String) The source network ID for the firewall rule.
- `src_network_type` (String) The source network type of the firewall rule. Can be one of `ADDRv4` or `NETv4`. Defaults to `NETv4`.
- `state_established` (Boolean) Match where the state is established.
- `state_invalid` (Boolean) Match where the state is invalid.
- `state_new` (Boolean) Match where the state is new.
- `state_related` (Boolean) Match where the state is related.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of the firewall rule.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# import using the ID from the controller API/UI
terraform import unifi_firewall_rule.my_rule 5f7080eb6b8969064f80494f
```
