---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "unifi_wlan Resource - terraform-provider-unifi"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  unifi_wlan manages a WiFi network / SSID.
---

# unifi_wlan (Resource)

`unifi_wlan` manages a WiFi network / SSID.

## Example Usage

```terraform
variable "vlan_id" {
  default = 10
}

data "unifi_ap_group" "default" {
}

data "unifi_user_group" "default" {
}

resource "unifi_network" "vlan" {
  name    = "wifi-vlan"
  purpose = "corporate"

  subnet       = "10.0.0.1/24"
  vlan_id      = var.vlan_id
  dhcp_start   = "10.0.0.6"
  dhcp_stop    = "10.0.0.254"
  dhcp_enabled = true
}

resource "unifi_wlan" "wifi" {
  name       = "myssid"
  passphrase = "12345678"
  security   = "wpapsk"

  # enable WPA2/WPA3 support
  wpa3_support    = true
  wpa3_transition = true
  pmf_mode        = "optional"

  network_id    = unifi_network.vlan.id
  ap_group_ids  = [data.unifi_ap_group.default.id]
  user_group_id = data.unifi_user_group.default.id
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The SSID of the network.
- `security` (String) The type of WiFi security for this network. Valid values are: `wpapsk`, `wpaeap`, and `open`.
- `user_group_id` (String) ID of the user group to use for this network.

### Optional

- `ap_group_ids` (Set of String) IDs of the AP groups to use for this network.
- `hide_ssid` (Boolean) Indicates whether or not to hide the SSID from broadcast.
- `is_guest` (Boolean) Indicates that this is a guest WLAN and should use guest behaviors.
- `l2_isolation` (Boolean) Isolates stations on layer 2 (ethernet) level Defaults to `false`.
- `mac_filter_enabled` (Boolean) Indicates whether or not the MAC filter is turned of for the network.
- `mac_filter_list` (Set of String) List of MAC addresses to filter (only valid if `mac_filter_enabled` is `true`).
- `mac_filter_policy` (String) MAC address filter policy (only valid if `mac_filter_enabled` is `true`). Defaults to `deny`.
- `minimum_data_rate_2g_kbps` (Number) Set minimum data rate control for 2G devices, in Kbps. Use `0` to disable minimum data rates. Valid values are: `1000`, `2000`, `5500`, `6000`, `9000`, `11000`, `12000`, `18000`, `24000`, `36000`, `48000`,  and `54000`.
- `minimum_data_rate_5g_kbps` (Number) Set minimum data rate control for 5G devices, in Kbps. Use `0` to disable minimum data rates. Valid values are: `6000`, `9000`, `12000`, `18000`, `24000`, `36000`, `48000`,  and `54000`.
- `multicast_enhance` (Boolean) Indicates whether or not Multicast Enhance is turned of for the network.
- `network_id` (String) ID of the network for this SSID
- `no2ghz_oui` (Boolean) Connect high performance clients to 5 GHz only Defaults to `true`.
- `passphrase` (String, Sensitive) The passphrase for the network, this is only required if `security` is not set to `open`.
- `pmf_mode` (String) Enable Protected Management Frames. This cannot be disabled if using WPA 3. Valid values are `required`, `optional` and `disabled`. Defaults to `disabled`.
- `radius_profile_id` (String) ID of the RADIUS profile to use when security `wpaeap`. You can query this via the `unifi_radius_profile` data source.
- `schedule` (Block List) Start and stop schedules for the WLAN (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--schedule))
- `site` (String) The name of the site to associate the wlan with.
- `uapsd` (Boolean) Enable Unscheduled Automatic Power Save Delivery Defaults to `false`.
- `wlan_band` (String) Radio band your WiFi network will use.
- `wpa3_support` (Boolean) Enable WPA 3 support (security must be `wpapsk` and PMF must be turned on).
- `wpa3_transition` (Boolean) Enable WPA 3 and WPA 2 support (security must be `wpapsk` and `wpa3_support` must be true).

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of the network.

<a id="nestedblock--schedule"></a>
### Nested Schema for `schedule`

Required:

- `day_of_week` (String) Day of week for the block. Valid values are `sun`, `mon`, `tue`, `wed`, `thu`, `fri`, `sat`.
- `duration` (Number) Length of the block in minutes.
- `start_hour` (Number) Start hour for the block (0-23).

Optional:

- `name` (String) Name of the block.
- `start_minute` (Number) Start minute for the block (0-59). Defaults to `0`.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# import from provider configured site
terraform import unifi_wlan.mywlan 5dc28e5e9106d105bdc87217

# import from another site
terraform import unifi_wlan.mywlan bfa2l6i7:5dc28e5e9106d105bdc87217
```
